# Renku Agentic Coding Environment PoC 


The project adds agent harnesses for popular LLM providers to a Renku session. 


In addition, it uses [iroh-ssh](https://github.com/rustonbsd/iroh-ssh) to establish a direct peer to peer tunnel between the Renku session and your machine. You can then login via SSH or connect VSCode directly to the session.

## Quickstart (Agent)

### Work with the example project
1. Open the [Renku Agentic Coding Environment](https://renkulab.io/p/codev/race-sdsc-llm) ([link](https://renkulab.io/p/codev/race-sdsc-llm))
2. Click "Launch" to start a Session.
3. Select a resource, "Small" should be sufficient
4. Wait for the session to start. If it asks to trust the folder, click "Trust it"
5. Use/Open a terminal (Ctrl+Shift+C or via the VSCode menu)
6. Type `pi` and hit enter
7. Type `/login` and hit enter
8. Select `Use a subscription` -> `SDSC LLM (OIDC)`
9. Follow the link in the pop-up window
10. Login like described in the previous section **Accessing the Web Interface**
11. Close the tab and return to the Renku session tab. 
12. Start prompting the agent, e.g. "Explore this codebase"

### Add your own code
1. Login to Renku
2. Open the  [Renku Agentic Coding Environment](https://renkulab.io/p/codev/race-sdsc-llm) ([link](https://renkulab.io/p/codev/race-sdsc-llm))
3. Copy the project. Click on the menu in the info box and click "Copy Project".
4. Add a code repository to your project ([documented here](https://docs.renkulab.io/en/stable/docs/users/code/guides/add-code-repository-to-project))
5. Start a new session as described above. The repository will be mounted inside your session.


## Quickstart (SSH)
- Be familiar with how SSH works and have it installed ([More Info](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent))
- Install [iroh-ssh](https://github.com/rustonbsd/iroh-ssh#installation) for your platform


### Add authorized keys to secrets

#### Get your public key
Get your local public SSH key, e.g. on Linux run
```
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub 
# Copy the output from the terminal
```

#### Create a host key for the Renku session

Generate a SSH ed25519 key for this Renku session locally. Without it, connecting to the Renku session via SSH is more cumbersome.

```
ssh-keygen -C "renku session host key" -N "" -t ed25519 -f .ssh/ssh_host_key_ed25519
```

#### Prepare Renku secrets
In your Renku project go to `Settings`, then `Session secret slots` and add the following secrets

| Slot name | Filename | Content |
| --- | --- | --- |
| authorized_keys | authorized_keys | Your local public key |
| ssh_host_ed25519_key | ssh_host_ed25519_key | The content of `.ssh/ssh_host_key_ed25519` |


### Start Renku session and connect via SSH
- Click the **Launch** button of the session
- When the session is ready you can use the terminal of the Renku session and type
```
iroh-ssh info
```
- You will find an entry like this
```
Your server iroh-ssh nodeid:
  iroh-ssh renku@<long id>
```
- Copy the `iroh-ssh renku@...` line and paste it into a terminal of your local machine
- You should now be connected via SSH to your session

## Make persistent connection

The SSH connection changes on every restart of your session. You need to get the above connection id everytime you start the session. In order to always use the same id, we must fetch a persistent key pair from the Renku session and place it in the Renku secrets.

### Get iroh-ssh keypair
Use a terminal of the Renku session using the established SSH connection.
Display the output of the following two files

```
cat ~/.ssh/irohssh_ed25519
cat ~/.ssh/irohssh_ed25519.pub
```

Keep the terminal or browser tab open. Open a new tab for the next step.

### Prepare Renku secrets
In your Renku project go to `Settings`, then `Session secret slots` and add the following secrets using the output from the previous step

| Slot name | Filename | Content |
| --- | --- | --- | 
| irohssh_ed25519.pub | irohssh_ed25519.pub | The public key generated by iroh-ssh |
| irohssh_ed25519 | irohssh_ed25519 | The private key private generated by iroh-ssh |

## SSH config
You can add an entry to your SSH config to connect directly using SSH

```
Host renku
    HostName <your-connection-id>
    User renku
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
    ProxyCommand iroh-ssh proxy %h
```

You can then connect to the session using
```
ssh renku
```

or connect a local VScode instance to it via the SSH Extension. Please make sure to not use the `small` Renku resource, as VScode-server might overwhelm the Renku session.


## Next steps
Build your own images using this example
